>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so let's
actually take a look at a service worker,
let's start to write a service worker.
We need to understand a little bit
more about that life cycle thing,
because we're gonna store some
variables in our service worker.
But we need to understand,
when does this service worker live?
Well, as soon as we called register and
it loaded up into the browser,
it starts and runs this program.
So it runs through it, but
it may not have, it definitely has not,
finished all of its installation,
activation, all that other stuff.
So it's gonna stay running for
the entirety of the time your page is up.
I don't know of any scenario where
a browser kills the service worker
while somebody's actually on the page.
It keeps it alive while
they're on the page.
If they go away from the page,
it still might be alive for up to 5 or 10,
maybe 30 seconds at most.
If it was doing something,
it may stay alive for a little while.
This is very opaque, the browsers
don't let us control any of that.
They manage the life cycle, but
it's gonna stay alive for awhile.
But it's entirely possible that
somebody may have had your tab open and
everything was alive.
And then that went to a background tab,
and
they haven't had your page open for
weeks, right, or days or even hours.
It's entirely possible that the service
worker may have been killed over
a prolonged period of inactivity
while the tab was in the background.
The browser says,
I don't need any of that.
And so when the browser detects that your
page has come back to life, it's now being
used, if the service worker is not
currently running, it's gonna restart it.
Now what's important to understand
here is, it restarts it, but
it doesn't rerun it through
the installation and activation phase.
It just restarts the code that we write in
the global scope of our service worker.
That code runs at first installation, and
it also runs at restart if the service
worker has ever been killed.
And we'll see actually in the developer
tools how we can stop and
start our service worker.
But we need to be mindful of any stuff
that we put into our service worker in our
state of our global scope.
It's not really very permanent,
it's there the whole time
the service worker is alive.
But it's entirely possible our service
worker dies and comes back to life, and
then all that stuff gets reinitialized.
So be careful what you do in
the global scope, essentially.
>> Kyle Simpson: So one thing that we
definitely want to store for now is,
we wanna set up a version variable,
and I'm gonna start it at version 1.
>> Kyle Simpson: Essentially,
this is a constant,
this isn't gonna change
throughout the lifetime of this.
So if you wanna make it a constant,
that's fine,
we're not gonna reassign
this version variable.
But from each time we make a major
change to our application, to the logic,
to any routing stuff that
our service worker's doing,
we wanna make sure the service
worker gets updated.
And a nice convenient way of making sure
that the browser knows to update it is to
just bump the version number.
Okay, some people like to do that with
a code comment instead of an actual
variable.
All you have to do is change one
byte somewhere in the file, and
it'll get seen as a new service worker.
One reason why you might wanna use
a version, which doesn't totally apply to
what we're doing with this website, it
applies a little bit more to applications.
Is the idea of treating the entire set
of resources as one atomic package.
Meaning we don't want some updated
HTML files but some old HTML files.
That's generally how I think of things,
even with a website.
If I've made a change, I want everybody
to see the entire change on every page.
But sometimes you have so much stuff that
it's okay that it's rolling out sort of
progressively as somebody navigates along.
The idea of having a version number that
you bump is a little bit more like that
app where you bump the version.
And when we start messing around
with caches in a little bit,
it'll be like basically,
blow away the old cache.
And refresh the cache with all
the new version of the stuff.
So it's like everything is version 1,
and then everything is version 2.
If that doesn't work for you,
if you have too many resources and
you don't wanna do that update,
you may not track your versions like this.
You may not name your
caches version specific.
But even for a website,
the way I think about it is,
I want everything to be in sync.
So I'm still gonna sort of approach
it more like the app mindset.
And I'm okay that somebody may end
up then spending a little bit of
extra bandwidth to reload my site
anytime I've made a big code change.
Certainly I wouldn't want them to have to
reload everything just because I added
a blog post.
But if I've redone a bunch of code or
a bunch of CSS or something,
I want everything in sync.
So that depends on how you see that,
how you wanna update that stuff.
You can do it incrementally or sort of
all together, or somewhere in between.
You have full control, you get to
write whatever code works for you.
Okay, so we're gonna approach
it from that perspective.
Each time we update the version,
we're gonna re-prime the cache,
instead of kinda incrementally
getting the cache.
Okay, so let's listen for some events,
we wanna say self.addEventListener.
And the first event that we
wanna listen for is install.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then we'll listen for
another event called,
>> Kyle Simpson: Activate.
>> Kyle Simpson: So obviously we're
gonna need to define those functions.
Before we do that, though,
I am gonna define a place for
my initialization that I
want to run every time.
And we'll talk in a little bit
as we unfold the service worker,
we'll talk about what kinds of things
do we wanna initialize or not.
But I'm in the old school C tradition,
I'm gonna collect everything into a main
function, that is the stuff
that I want to have happen.
And remember, this runs every time
the service worker is started,
even if it's already been installed.
Any time you run an asynchronous function,
make sure to remember to catch and
log out any errors.
Because any mistakes you
make will be silent and
you'll be pulling your hair out for
hours and I've done that many, many times.
Okay, so let's first define,
we'll make this an async function.
We don't need it to be async now, but we
will later, so I'm just gonna go ahead and
make it an async function.
All we wanna do right now is
say that my service worker.
And to make things a little bit saner for
us in our logging,
I'm gonna drop in our version number.
So that when we start updating versions,
it's clear which version the console
messages are coming from.
We'll say has started,
or maybe is starting.
>> Kyle Simpson: You can have your
messages say whatever you want,
I'm just giving you an idea.
We're gonna watch this
life cycle play out, okay?
Then we're gonna want an async
function called onInstall.
>> Kyle Simpson: And
another one called onActivate.
>> Kyle Simpson: And essentially,
I'm gonna do those same
messages in all three of these.
So that we can kind of see
the life cycle play out.
>> Kyle Simpson: Since these are event
handlers, they're both gonna receive
an event object,
which we're going to want to receive.
For onInstall, we're not gonna
be using that one right now.
But in the installation phase, this is
where I was talking a little bit earlier
about the idea of, I've installed,
but I'm in this waiting phase.
That's the default, immediately
after I've finished installing, and
I've fired that install handler,
I'm now in this waiting phase.
And what we want in our
particular use case is,
we want our new service worker
to take over right away.
So it has a chance to load
up all the new resources and
get them in front of the user
as quickly as possible.
It still might be the case, if you were
doing an app, this would be more true.
It still might be the case that
the user is physically seeing the old
versions of all these files.
Because this might be
a new service worker and
it's all the old content
that's still showing.
But that's when you then
have the option to, for
example, either wait until
the next refresh or page load.
Or you could proactively message to
the user, hey, things have updated,
if you wanna get the new stuff,
click refresh.
Or I guess if you really wanted to, you
could just forcibly refresh it for them.
So it depends on your scenario,
what user experience works best for you.
But to skip the waiting phase,
you're gonna call self.skipWaiting.